perched atop the Twin Cities Mississippi
River Bluffs you will find an
international beacon of higher education
inspired by Catholic intellectual
tradition the University of st. Thomas
is true to its mission to educate
students to be morally responsible
leaders who think critically act wisely
and work skillfully to advance the
common good in pursuit of that lofty
mission st. Thomas provides a rock-solid
foundation of effective teaching active
learning scholarly research and
responsible community engagement at home
and abroad Archbishop John Ireland
founded the school in 1885 now more than
a century later st. Thomas is the
largest private university in Minnesota
a state rich in higher learning with its
main campus in Saint Paul st. Thomas has
locations in Minneapolis southern
Minnesota and Rome more than 10,000
students attend almost a 50/50 split of
men and women slightly more than half
are undergraduates those students find
an undergraduate curriculum that
balances arts and sciences with
professional education and that
professional orientation carries over
into graduate work at an institution
classified as a doctoral university
seven academic units educate students
arts and sciences business education
leadership and counseling engineering
law Social Work and the st. Paul
seminary school of divinity since its
recognition as a doctoral University US
News and World Report has ranked st.
Thomas in the top 125 national
universities that publications best
colleges ranking places the st. Thomas
Social Work program in the top 20%
business education and engineering also
make the US News
list the collegiate learning assessment
ranked the school in the top 10%
nationally when comparing student
performance between freshman and senior
years and it's no wonder when you
consider the institutional commitment to
student learning through academic
support advising and teaching st. Thomas
employs more than 400 full-time faculty
who teach 70% of the courses they're
joined by dedicated highly regarded
practicing professionals living out its
mission st. Thomas purposefully looks
beyond the classroom and campus borders
the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of teaching notes the
university's quote substantial
commitments and curricular engagement
and outreach and partnerships programs
include service-learning tutor mentor
and students for justice and peace and
this academic wanderlust can also be
found in the University's commitment to
global education nationally among
doctoral institutions the st. Thomas
ranks fifth in undergraduate study
abroad participation in fact st. Thomas
students and faculty leave footprints in
places like Asia Australia and Western
Europe but those educational paths begin
back in st. Paul Minnesota in the Twin
Cities a community that serves as a
wonderful educational backdrop rich in
culture the arts and thriving as an
international city in a state that
embraces both nature and the glorious
variety of the Four Seasons such as the
home of our faith-based institution that
proudly sends students out to make the
community the country and the world a
better place that international beacon
of higher education is the University of
st. Thomas in Saint Paul Minnesota
you